>> Steve Kinney: So text image is
interesting, but we've all seen it before.
What about image to image?
This involves taking two pipelines,
involves taking a text to image pipeline
in our case, then you can actually
use an image as the baseline to then
further adjust the image as well.
So you will in this case in
the example we're gonna see,
we're gonna have a stable diffusion
pipeline, which is text to image model.
And then we will have an image to
image pipeline where we'll instead,
I don't know why I'm explaining
to you what those words mean.
Text to image takes text to image.
Image to image does image to image, clear?
And again, strength is kinda
the parameter that we want here,
which is like our temperature earlier and
our guidance later of, and actually,
in this one, it was earlier in the day
on whatever weekend I was working on it.
So I actually will show you across
three different ones without having to
generate it.
And yeah, low will stay very close to
the original image to the point where it's
like, why did I even bother doing this,
right?
And as you approach 1.0,
it will take greater and
greater liberties and like,
arguably get you closer or farther,
depending on what you're
exactly trying to do.
Let's talk about it first, I promise
to tell you what latent space meant
other than just seeming
like a cool album name for
a 90s band where they're just sitting
on a couch with their guitars.
So the input image
encoded in latent space.
Then a certain amount of noise is added to
this representation that's determined by
the string.
So basically we take one,
we put back some noise, right?
And then we take away
the noise that we added.
It's not wrong to think
about latent spaces.
Like again, when we took all that text and
turned it into numbers, not totally right,
don't me.
But it's not wrong either,
and so yeah, basically,
effectively what we're gonna do is
we're gonna turn it into that kind
of like number ones and zeros weird
GPU land that we barely understand.
We're gonna add some more
chaos with the prompt and
then we're gonna remove that chaos and
like find we get what we want underneath.
So yeah, in that space, we can basically
we're working with it in that kind of GPU
little area and we're not like
worrying about in the full image.
So it's not that we're like taking,
we're kinda moving both the original
image back into like the ones and zeros,
land of numbers and
then doing everything in there.
So it's not actually editing
the original image per se,
it's kind of like taking it back
into its weird GPU essence, right?
Adding the chaos back in and
then producing another image.
All right, so image stuff,
which I think is super fascinating,
there's not enough interesting
stuff happening here.
I'm pulling in this matplotlib,
which is a graphing library of Python.
It's not important to the actual
making of the images.
It is important for making pretty
graphs which as a JavaScript engineer,
it's really easy to use.
We're not gonna get to say
there is this library also for
Python that Hugging Face supports called
Gradio, where it'll make a UI where you
can adjust all these parameters and
share the full on UI.
And I'm just like, why do I have a job?
Now, they're very simple UIs.
I'm like, to be clear, I have been
very happy running JavaScript for
a very long time.
I started playing with Python
to play with this stuff.
It's pretty good.
I like it.
I like me some python.
Okay, we've seen all this stuff before.
Then we come down here.
All right, I'm gonna run this while we
talk about it, cuz I'm not an idiot.
Grabbing.
There is a stable diffusion two
that's on Hugging Face two and
I think even there are some bigger ones so
on and so forth.
I grabbed this one because I knew
I was going to live be doing this.
Go ahead, grab a bigger one.
You can even use some of the bigger
ones I think on the free tier as well.
I was also just going for
speed in this case as well.
Okay, so we're going to grab
two pipelines this time.
We're gonna have the text to image
pipeline that we had before.
So that's gonna be stable
diffusion pipeline, makes sense?
The model id, we're going to use the same
model for both, so on and so forth.
Again, the safe tensors are just ones
that make sure they can't execute
arbitrary code.
They are tensors that are safe.
That's like everyone likes it when
you explain a term using the words
in the term.
And then we've got this image to
image pipeline which is, yeah,
just using again a different set of
abstractions, same model, right?
It's just the like extra,
like the tokenizing the inputs,
all that kind of stuff.
Hugging Face is just wrapping it up for
you.
You could do all this stuff by Hand.
You could also make your own HTTP
server and roll your own crypto too.
You know, like, do whatever you want.
So then I have, and
you can see the code for this.
You can see the code.
It's two strings.
I did break that out pretty well.
Where we can change.
So I've got a sketch of a house.
Like a literal sketch,
a simple sketch of a house, and
then a futuristic glass house with
neon lights, cyberpunk style.
I think I was looking at those
Mudang pictures too much, and
that's how I ended up there.
And so then we'll go ahead and
we'll use the text to image pipeline,
and I will run that,
I gotta put those strings into memory.
So let's do that as soon as it's
done loading these models, and
then we're gonna create that base image.
So we're gonna start with just what we saw
in the previous section where we're gonna
take some text.
We're going to make
an image intentionally.
I'm gonna start the next
one while I'm at it.
Intentionally.
I chose a sketch.
It should look like
a little pencil drawing.
It's really like, if live coding
wasn't scary enough, Live random.
Will the AI do what you want?
Is a new level of fear that
I've engaged in this week.
And so
it will theoretically give me a sketch.
And then what I'm doing is I'm
gonna show you at strengths.
0.3, 0.5, and 0.7, I think.
And you can change any of these numbers,
like I keep telling you.
At one point I was 0.8, I think I made
my point at 0.7, that's where I left it.
Okay, that's our sketch of a house.
Neat.
And I will say, when you play with this,
play with these prompts,
did I make it a haunted
house at some point?
Of course I did, right?
Did I make it like Princess Bubblegum's
castle from Adventure Time?
Yes.
Right, do all of those things.
It is part of the great joy that I have
not felt since I first started learning
how to program.
And I put something in a database and
took it back out again.
And that no longer fills me with joy.
And this does.
So you should experience that joy too.
The first time I did Ajax and
changed something to the DOM and
I felt like a wizard.
I didn't feel like a wizard
anymore until now.
All right, so we got our house.
Effectively.
The loop here is basically because I'm
going through the three strengths.
The important part here is We've got
that image to image pipeline where we're
passing in the base image,
our transformation prompt, and
then some stuff that I'm doing to
put it on a pretty graph for you.
Don't worry about that,
that's not important.
But you can see that's the original 0.3,
I guess.
Right.
There are some changes.
0.5, we're getting a little
futuristic cyberpunk.
And then 0.7, we are, we're there.
I can see that it came from the image, but
I'm starting to lose
the thread a little bit.
You know what I mean?
>> Speaker 2: There's a big
difference between those last two.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
And let's play a fun game,
I don't know with the code that I was
flexible enough to take more than 3.
So what we're going to do is
0.3 was a waste of our time.
Let's turn this to let's do six.
Let's see the difference between 6,
5, 6 and let's do I do 8 or 9.
>> Speaker 2: 9.
>> Steve Kinney: 9, all right,
all right, all right.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we've got the one we did at 5.
Again, not particularly slow, except
the fact that we're doing three of them.
And the nice part too is with this
notebook, if one wanted, you can go and
regenerate that base image.
It's still going to use the same
base image as before because that's
still in memory.
I didn't rerun that
part of the code block.
I think six was the sweet spot.
I gotta say,
six is definitely the sweet spot.
Nine looks cool.
But again, if you think about it, the way
that this works, took the original image,
added back noise and denoised it again.
So nine is obviously adding back.
Like the closer you get to one,
the more you added noise back and
like noised over the original.
So it makes sense.
But yeah, I think even compared
to like seven, I mean five,
you could argue that if we're truly
taking the nature of the assignment,
which is take the original image,
it's that cyberpunk thing that I think
makes it a little like nuanced here.
I would argue that 5 understood
the assignment the best.
I kinda like 6 though too.
>> Speaker 2: It looks like the same
house over a 10 year period.
Every 10 years.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
Yeah.
And then who knows what happened here.
>> Speaker 2: This is when that's
the portal that they walk through.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
This is when the neighborhood really got
a wine bar at this point.
Yeah.
So
you have the ability to not only
create images from text, but
also manipulate images.
And I would just want to say that
we only have so much time today and
even trying to stay on the free tier.
There's also video models and
audio models on hugging face as
well that are worth looking at.